now hunting down enormous icebergs off
the Newfoundland coast might be an
elaborate group effort but in the end
those Berg's are pretty easy to spot
that can't be said of the little pests
in our next story bed bugs you might
have heard how hotels all across North
America have been having huge problems
trying to get rid of them but we
discovered that finding bedbugs is only
half the battle but if you have one
specially trained dog on your side it
can be a piece of cake bedbugs even
looking at this little critter makes my
skin crawl well if you've ever suspected
that you have bed bugs you know what an
absolute nightmare it can be today I'm
here in thornhill ontario to meet with
Michael Goldman and his dog Cody who
have a pretty unique way sniffing them
out Cody's a seven year old mutt rescued
from the pound Michael discovered his
talents right away he was originally
pegged as a termite sniffer but with
bedbug infestations on the rise Cody
became the world's first bedbug sniffing
dog his nose as many thousands of times
more sensitive than ours are he needs it
to sniff out these little guys they're
extremely flat they can get into a crack
as small as a credit card they're great
hitchhikers and and they they'll hide in
your luggage they'll hide in the cup of
your pants human sleuths can spot the
bedbugs in your house about forty
percent of the time the Cody blows them
away good boy I can't see what's behind
the baseboard I can't see what's you
know inside drawers etc only what I can
see with the naked eye whereas a dog is
about ninety ninety-five percent
accurate some of Cody's training is just
in good behavior good boy what you see
when you see him walking down the street
and he's beside me and when I asked me
to do things that's that's my training
but some training is more specialized so
what's this this is your clothes of the
wheel of Cody it's a training device
that we use to train the dogs and what
we have in it is sawdust and insulation
and parts of a mattress things that
you'd find in a house and we also have
one with bedbugs in it let's see how it
works okay Cody where you work good boy
Cody seek
like a boy Cory seek seek seek now I
didn't ask him to stop he stopped on his
own Cody show me good boy and this is
his reward good boy let's see what you
did Cody good job it's you want the dog
to think okay on the school let's go
find it you know they get really excited
to get the dog really excited you walk
along when the doc find something you
want to be as animated as possible and
good boy or good girl you know and and
and pest them and give them food and wow
what a great reward I get having
conquered the wheel of Cody we move up a
level though they're called bedbugs they
can be anywhere the problem is that bed
bugs don't just stay in the bed they can
be in the couch and chairs in the crib
in high chairs in in the carpeting time
to play hide-and-seek dead bucks those
vials are covered with a thin membrane
that lets bedbugs breathe and lets Cody
get a whiff of them quota seek seek see
good boy show me show me good boy
there's one sick good boy show me good
boy over your paw there's two pretty yes
where is good boy and and there's three
when Cody first spots a bug he gets
what's called a passive alert he stopped
was in sick with shani then when he's
got Michaels attention he pinpoints is
fine Cody will put his pop code it will
actually point to where the bedbugs are
and I say show me and he'll point to it
bed bugs have been a scourge for
centuries in the 1970s and 80s the heavy
use of effective pesticides like DDT
nearly wiped them out the chemicals we
use today force the bugs to retreat only
to regroup and invade again cuz of our
changing modes of pest management
they're starting to take hold again so
if bedbugs are now a fact of life we can
be grateful that Cody's on the scene
here's your bed bugs back wow you got
them all yeah next time make it a
competition yeah good job I think
though baby bed bugs are smaller than a
pinhead and nearly transparent both the
kids and their parents love the same
food mammal blood preferably human
because he needs to train his dogs on
live bugs he keeps them on him he feeds
them from the only willing source his
own arm it takes about 10 minutes for an
adult bedbug to down a good meal huh
done remember that single bug I planted
a little while ago it's still there Oh
Cody eliminating bedbugs is a big job
you have to brush and vacuum wrap your
mattress in a special cover spread
insecticides and apply steam anything
over 120 degrees will kill all stages of
the bedbugs though if you get rid of all
bedbugs you'd put Cody out of work and
you wouldn't want to disappoint such a
nice dog would you good boy
you